# Craps

## Description
This program uses Monte Carlo simulations to estimate the probability of winning a game of Craps. Monte Carlo simulations are used to model the probability of various outcomes in systems that harbor a significant degree of randomness. It is a technique used in predictive and forecasting models to consider the effects of risk and uncertainty.

However, computers, being deterministic machines, cannot generate truly random numbers as they rely on algorithms. To address this, we seed a pseudo-random number generator using the current time in seconds past midnight. This is used to simulate the roll of two dice. The sum of the two dice resulting in 7 or 11 means you win (represented by 1), a sum of 2,3, and 12 means you lose (represented by 2), and any other result implies a need to toss again (represented by 0). The probability of winning a game of craps is calculated as the ratio of games won to games played. The more games played, the more accurate the result.

We seed our random number generator at the start and end of the program. Within a while loop that continues as long as the number of throws is greater than zero, a for loop is executed for the given number of throws. Within the for loop, we call a method named 'craps' that simulates a game of craps and returns the result. If 'craps' returns a 0, we need to toss again, so another while loop is executed to call 'craps' until it returns either 1 (win) or 2 (lose). We use a variable 'playedGames' to keep track of the number of games played, incrementing it every time the game is repeated. If the result is 1, another variable 'numberWins' is incremented, and if the result is 2, 'numberLoses' is incremented. To calculate the probability of winning, we divide 'numberWins' by 'playedGames'. The loop can be exited by entering zero.

While creating this program, I learned about statistics, application of integration, generating pseudo-random numbers, and the probability of winning a game of craps at a casino. Even though this program was short and relatively easy to write, it required considerable research to understand pseudo-random numbers and their working.
